DOCSUP-5910: Documented SimHash, MinHash, bitHammingDistance and tupleHammingDistance functions (#22131)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/sql-reference/functions/hash-functions.md

-   [xxHash](http://cyan4973.github.io/xxHash/).

## ngramSimHash {#ngramsimhash}

> Returns the n-gram simhash of a string in ASCII.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the n-gram simhash of a string in ASCII. Is case insensitive.
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case sensitive.
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case sensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). For two values: the smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramSimHash(string [, ngramsize])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramSimHash(string[, ngramsize])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Hash value.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramSimHash('ClickHouse') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌───────Hash─┐
│ 1627567969 │
└────────────┘
```

## ngramSimHashCaseInsensitive {#ngramsimhashcaseinsensitive}

> Returns the n-gram simhash of a string in ASCII case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the n-gram simhash of a string in ASCII. Is case insensitive.
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case insensitive.
```

> Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). For two values: the smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely those values are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely these values are the same.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramSimHashCaseInsensitive(string [, ngramsize])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramSimHashCaseInsensitive(string[, ngramsize])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Hash value.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql

> SELECT ngramSimHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse') AS Hash;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT ngramSimHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse') AS hash;
```

```

Result:

``` text

> ┌──────Hash─┐

Reviewer: ```suggestion
┌──────hash─┐
```

│ 562180645 │
└───────────┘
```

## ngramSimHashUTF8 {#ngramsimhashutf8}

> Returns the n-gram simhash of a string in UTF8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the n-gram simhash of a string in UTF8. Is case insensitive.
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case sensitive.
```

> Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). For two values: the smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely those values are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely these values are the same.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramSimHashUTF8(string [, ngramsize])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramSimHashUTF8(string[, ngramsize])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Hash value.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql

> SELECT ngramSimHashUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Hash;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT ngramSimHashUTF8('ClickHouse') AS hash;
```

```

Result:

``` text

> ┌───────Hash─┐

Reviewer: ```suggestion
┌───────hash─┐
```

│ 1628157797 │
└────────────┘
```

## ngramSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#ngramsimhashcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Returns the n-gram simhash of a string in UTF8 case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the n-gram simhash of a string in UTF-8. Is case insensitive.
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram simhash. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). For two values: the smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string [, ngramsize])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string[, ngramsize])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Hash value.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql

> SELECT ngramSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Hash;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT ngramSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse') AS hash;
```

```

Result:

``` text

> ┌───────Hash─┐

Reviewer: ```suggestion
┌───────hash─┐
```

│ 1636742693 │
└────────────┘
```

## wordShingleSimHash {#wordshinglesimhash}

> Returns the word shingle simhash of a string in ASCII.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the word shingle simhash of a string in ASCII. Is case insensitive.
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into shingles of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle simhash. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle simhash. Is case sensitive.
```

> Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). For two values: the smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely those values are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely these values are the same.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleSimHash(string [, shinglesize])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleSimHash(string[, shinglesize])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Hash value.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql

> SELECT wordShingleSimHash('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Hash;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT wordShingleSimHash('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS hash;
```

```

Result:

``` text

> ┌───────Hash─┐

Reviewer: ```suggestion
┌───────hash─┐
```

│ 2328277067 │
└────────────┘
```

## wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitive {#wordshinglesimhashcaseinsensitive}

> Returns the word shingle simhash of a string in ASCII case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the word shingle simhash of a string in ASCII. Is case insensitive.
```

> Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). For two values: the smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely those values are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely these values are the same.
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into shingles of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle simhash. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle simhash. Is case insensitive.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitive(string [, shinglesize])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitive(string[, shinglesize])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Hash value.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql

> SELECT wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Hash;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS hash;
```

```

Result:

``` text

> ┌───────Hash─┐

Reviewer: ```suggestion
┌───────hash─┐
```

│ 2194812424 │
└────────────┘
```

## wordShingleSimHashUTF8 {#wordshinglesimhashutf8}

> Returns the word shingle simhash of a string in UTF8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the word shingle simhash of a string in UTF8. Is case sensitive.
```

> Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). For two values: the smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely those values are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely these values are the same.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleSimHashUTF8(string [, shinglesize])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleSimHashUTF8(string[, shinglesize])
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into shingles of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle simhash. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle simhash. Is case sensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Hash value.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql

> SELECT wordShingleSimHashUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Hash;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT wordShingleSimHashUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS hash;
```

```

Result:

``` text

> ┌───────Hash─┐

Reviewer: ```suggestion
┌───────hash─┐
```

│ 2328277067 │
└────────────┘
```

## wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#wordshinglesimhashcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Returns the word shingle simhash of a string in UTF8 case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns the word shingle simhash of a string in UTF-8. Is case insensitive.
```

> Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). For two values: the smaller the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely those values are the same.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated simhashes of two values, the more likely these values are the same.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string [, shinglesize])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string[, shinglesize])
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into shingles of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle simhash. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle simhash. Is case insensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Hash value.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql

> SELECT wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Hash;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS hash;
```

```

Result:

``` text

> ┌───────Hash─┐

Reviewer: ```suggestion
┌───────hash─┐
```

│ 2194812424 │
└────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHash {#ngramminhash}

> Calculates a hash value for each n-gram of a string in ASCII and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates a hash value for each n-gram of a string in ASCII and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [tupleHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-functions.md#tuplehammingdistance). For two values: if one of the returned hashes is the same for both values, we think that those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramMinHash(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramMinHash(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

> -   Tuple with two hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Tuple with two hashes — min amd max.
```

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql

> SELECT ngramMinHash('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT ngramMinHash('ClickHouse') AS tuple;
```

```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (18333312859352735453,9054248444481805918) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive {#ngramminhashcaseinsensitive}

> Calculates a hash value for each n-gram of a string in ASCII case insensitive and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates a hash value for each n-gram of a string in ASCII and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [tupleHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-functions.md#tuplehammingdistance). For two values: if one of the returned hashes is the same for both values, we think that those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (2106263556442004574,13203602793651726206) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashUTF8 {#ngramminhashutf8}

> Calculates a hash value for each n-gram of a string in UTF8 and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates a hash value for each n-gram of a string in UTF-8 and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [tupleHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-functions.md#tuplehammingdistance). For two values: if one of the returned hashes is the same for both values, we think that those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramMinHashUTF8(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramMinHashUTF8(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (18333312859352735453,6742163577938632877) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#ngramminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Calculates a hash value for each n-gram of a string in UTF8 case insensitive and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates a hash value for each n-gram of a string in UTF-8 and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [tupleHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-functions.md#tuplehammingdistance). For two values: if one of the returned hashes is the same for both values, we think that those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

> -   Tuple with two hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Tuple with two hashes — minimum amd maximum.
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple───────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (12493625717655877135,13203602793651726206) │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashArg {#ngramminhasharg}

> Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` n-grams each. N-grams correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHash](#ngramminhash) function with the same input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` n-grams each. N-grams correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHash](#ngramminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramMinHashArg(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramMinHashArg(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-grams that correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHash](#ngramminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams that correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHash](#ngramminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` n-grams each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashArg('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('ous','ick','lic','Hou','kHo','use'),('Hou','lic','ick','ous','ckH','Cli')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitive {#ngramminhashargcaseinsensitive}

> Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` n-grams each. N-grams correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` n-grams each. N-grams correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitive(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitive(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-grams that correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams that correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` n-grams each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('ous','ick','lic','kHo','use','Cli'),('kHo','lic','ick','ous','ckH','Hou')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashArgUTF8 {#ngramminhashargutf8}

Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` n-grams each. N-grams correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHashUTF8](#ngramminhashutf8) function with the same input.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramMinHashArgUTF8(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramMinHashArgUTF8(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-grams that correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHashUTF8](#ngramminhashutf8) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHashUTF8](#ngramminhashutf8) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` n-grams each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashArgUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('ous','ick','lic','Hou','kHo','use'),('kHo','Hou','lic','ick','ous','ckH')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#ngramminhashargcaseinsensitiveutf8}

Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` n-grams each. N-grams correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` n-grams each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('ckH','ous','ick','lic','kHo','use'),('kHo','lic','ick','ous','ckH','Hou')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHash {#wordshingleminhash}

> Calculates a hash value for each word shingle of a string in ASCII and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates a hash value for each word shingle of a string in ASCII and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` size and returns the n-grams that correspond to n-grams in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` synbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [tupleHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-functions.md#tuplehammingdistance). For two values: if one of the returned hashes is the same for both values, we think that those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleMinHash(string [, shinglesize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleMinHash(string[, shinglesize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHash('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (16452112859864147620,5844417301642981317) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive {#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitive}

> Calculates a hash value for each word shingle of a string in ASCII case insensitive and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates a hash value for each word shingle of a string in ASCII and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into shingles of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [tupleHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-functions.md#tuplehammingdistance). For two values: if one of the returned hashes is the same for both values, we think that those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive(string [, shinglesize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive(string[, shinglesize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (3065874883688416519,1634050779997673240) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashUTF8 {#wordshingleminhashutf8}

> Calculates a hash value for each word shingle of a string in UTF8 and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates a hash value for each word shingle of a string in UTF-8 and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into shingles of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [tupleHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-functions.md#tuplehammingdistance). For two values: if one of the returned hashes is the same for both values, we think that those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleMinHashUTF8(string [, shinglesize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleMinHashUTF8(string[, shinglesize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (16452112859864147620,5844417301642981317) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Calculates a hash value for each word shingle of a string in UTF8 case insensitive and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates a hash value for each word shingle of a string in UTF-8 and uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with those hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [tupleHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/tuple-functions.md#tuplehammingdistance). For two values: if one of the returned hashes is the same for both values, we think that those values are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string [, shinglesize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string[, shinglesize, hashnum])
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into shingles of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into patrs (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (3065874883688416519,1634050779997673240) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashArg {#wordshingleminhasharg}

> Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` word shingles each. Shingles correspond to shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordShingleMinHash](#wordshingleminhash) function with the same input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` word shingles each. Shingles correspond to shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordShingleMinHash](#wordshingleminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleMinHashArg(string [, shinglesize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleMinHashArg(string[, shinglesize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into shingles of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` word shingles each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashArg('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).', 1, 3) AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('OLAP','database','analytical'),('online','oriented','processing')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitive {#wordshingleminhashargcaseinsensitive}

Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` word shingles each. Shingles correspond to shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitive(string [, shinglesize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitive(string[, shinglesize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into shingles of `shinglesize` words each and returns the word shingles that correspond to word shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordshingleMinHash](#wordshingleminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordshingleMinHash](#wordshingleminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` word shingles each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).', 1, 3) AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('queries','database','analytical'),('oriented','processing','DBMS')) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashArgUTF8 {#wordshingleminhashargutf8}

Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` word shingles each. Shingles correspond to shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordShingleMinHashUTF8](#wordshingleminhashutf8) function with the same input.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleMinHashArgUTF8(string [, shinglesize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleMinHashArgUTF8(string[, shinglesize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

> Splits a string in ASCII into shingles of `shinglesize` words each and returns the word shingles that correspond to word shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` word shingles each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashArgUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).', 1, 3) AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('OLAP','database','analytical'),('online','oriented','processing')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#wordshingleminhashargcaseinsensitiveutf8}

Returns a tuple with two sets of `hashnum` word shingles each. Shingles correspond to shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input.

**Syntax**

``` sql

> wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string [, shinglesize, hashnum])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string[, shinglesize, hashnum])
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — Text. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).

> -   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
> -   `hashnum` — Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into shingles of `shinglesize` words each and returns the word shingles that correspond to word shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordShingleMinHashUTF8](#wordshingleminhashutf8) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashUTF8](#wordshingleminhashutf8) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into shingles of `shinglesize` words each and returns the word shingles that correspond to word shingles in the calculation of the minimum and the maximum hashes of [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```

-   [xxHash](http://cyan4973.github.io/xxHash/).

## ngramSimHash {#ngramsimhash}

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram `simhash`. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram `simhash`. Is case sensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated `simhashes` of two strings, the more likely these strings are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramSimHash(string[, ngramsize])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Hashed string.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramSimHash('ClickHouse') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌───────Hash─┐
│ 1627567969 │
└────────────┘
```

## ngramSimHashCaseInsensitive {#ngramsimhashcaseinsensitive}

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram `simhash`. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram `simhash`. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated `simhashes` of two strings, the more likely these strings are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramSimHashCaseInsensitive(string[, ngramsize])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Hashed string.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramSimHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌──────Hash─┐
│ 562180645 │
└───────────┘
```

## ngramSimHashUTF8 {#ngramsimhashutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram `simhash`. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram `simhash`. Is case sensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated `simhashes` of two strings, the more likely these strings are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramSimHashUTF8(string[, ngramsize])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Hashed string.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramSimHashUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌───────Hash─┐
│ 1628157797 │
└────────────┘
```

## ngramSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#ngramsimhashcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram `simhash`. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-gram `simhash`. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated `simhashes` of two strings, the more likely these strings are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string[, ngramsize])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Hashed string.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌───────Hash─┐
│ 1636742693 │
└────────────┘
```

## wordShingleSimHash {#wordshinglesimhash}

> Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle `simhash`. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle `simhash`. Is case sensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated `simhashes` of two strings, the more likely these strings are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
wordShingleSimHash(string[, shinglesize])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Hashed string.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleSimHash('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌───────Hash─┐
│ 2328277067 │
└────────────┘
```

## wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitive {#wordshinglesimhashcaseinsensitive}

> Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle `simhash`. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle `simhash`. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated `simhashes` of two strings, the more likely these strings are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitive(string[, shinglesize])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Hashed string.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌───────Hash─┐
│ 2194812424 │
└────────────┘
```

## wordShingleSimHashUTF8 {#wordshinglesimhashutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle `simhash`. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle `simhash`. Is case sensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated `simhashes` of two strings, the more likely these strings are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
wordShingleSimHashUTF8(string[, shinglesize])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optinal. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Hashed string.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleSimHashUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌───────Hash─┐
│ 2328277067 │
└────────────┘
```

## wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#wordshinglesimhashcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle `simhash`. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and returns the word shingle `simhash`. Is case insensitive.
```

Can be used for detection of semi-duplicate strings with [bitHammingDistance](../../sql-reference/functions/bit-functions.md#bithammingdistance). The smaller is the [Hamming Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hamming_distance) of the calculated `simhashes` of two strings, the more likely these strings are the same.

**Syntax**

``` sql
wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string[, shinglesize])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Hashed string.

Type: [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleSimHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Hash;
```

Result:

``` text
┌───────Hash─┐
│ 2194812424 │
└────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHash {#ngramminhash}

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramMinHash(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes — the minimum and the maximum.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHash('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (18333312859352735453,9054248444481805918) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive {#ngramminhashcaseinsensitive}

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes — the minimum and the maximum.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (2106263556442004574,13203602793651726206) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashUTF8 {#ngramminhashutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramMinHashUTF8(string[, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes — the minimum and the maximum.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (18333312859352735453,6742163577938632877) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#ngramminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and calculates hash values for each n-gram. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

**Syntax**

``` sql
ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8(string [, ngramsize, hashnum])
```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes — the minimum and the maximum.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple───────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (12493625717655877135,13203602793651726206) │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashArg {#ngramminhasharg}

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHash](#ngramminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHash](#ngramminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` n-grams each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashArg('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('ous','ick','lic','Hou','kHo','use'),('Hou','lic','ick','ous','ckH','Cli')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitive {#ngramminhashargcaseinsensitive}

> Splits a string in ASCII into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitive](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```

-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` n-grams each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('ous','ick','lic','kHo','use','Cli'),('kHo','lic','ick','ous','ckH','Hou')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashArgUTF8 {#ngramminhashargutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHashUTF8](#ngramminhashutf8) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHashUTF8](#ngramminhashutf8) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` n-grams each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashArgUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('ous','ick','lic','Hou','kHo','use'),('kHo','Hou','lic','ick','ous','ckH')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#ngramminhashargcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into n-grams of `ngramsize` symbols and returns the n-grams with minimum and maximum hashes, calculated by the [ngramMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#ngramminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```

-   `ngramsize` — The size of an n-gram. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` n-grams each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT ngramMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('ckH','ous','ick','lic','kHo','use'),('kHo','lic','ick','ous','ckH','Hou')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHash {#wordshingleminhash}

> Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes — the minimum and the maximum.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHash('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (16452112859864147620,5844417301642981317) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive {#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitive}

> Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes — the minimum and the maximum.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (3065874883688416519,1634050779997673240) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashUTF8 {#wordshingleminhashutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case sensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes — the minimum and the maximum.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (16452112859864147620,5844417301642981317) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words and calculates hash values for each word shingle. Uses `hashnum` minimum hashes to calculate the minimum hash and `hashnum` maximum hashes to calculate the maximum hash. Returns a tuple with these hashes. Is case insensitive.
```

```

**Arguments**

-   `string` — String. [String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md).
-   `shinglesize` — The size of a word shingle. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `3`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).
-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two hashes — the minimum and the maximum.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md), [UInt64](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).') AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (3065874883688416519,1634050779997673240) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashArg {#wordshingleminhasharg}

> Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordshingleMinHash](#wordshingleminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordshingleMinHash](#wordshingleminhash) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` word shingles each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashArg('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).', 1, 3) AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('OLAP','database','analytical'),('online','oriented','processing')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitive {#wordshingleminhashargcaseinsensitive}

> Splits a string in ASCII into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a ASCII string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitive](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitive) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```

-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` word shingles each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitive('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).', 1, 3) AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('queries','database','analytical'),('oriented','processing','DBMS')) │
└────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashArgUTF8 {#wordshingleminhashargutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashUTF8](#wordshingleminhashutf8) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashUTF8](#wordshingleminhashutf8) function with the same input. Is case sensitive.
```

-   `hashnum` — The number of minimum and maximum hashes used to calculate the result. Optional. Possible values: any number from `1` to `25`. Default value: `6`. [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md).

**Returned value**

-   Tuple with two tuples with `hashnum` word shingles each.

Type: [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md)), [Tuple](../../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)([String](../../sql-reference/data-types/string.md))).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT wordShingleMinHashArgUTF8('ClickHouse® is a column-oriented database management system (DBMS) for online analytical processing of queries (OLAP).', 1, 3) AS Tuple;
```

Result:

``` text
┌─Tuple─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ (('OLAP','database','analytical'),('online','oriented','processing')) │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## wordShingleMinHashArgCaseInsensitiveUTF8 {#wordshingleminhashargcaseinsensitiveutf8}

> Splits a string in UTF-8 into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Splits a UTF-8 string into parts (shingles) of `shinglesize` words each and returns the shingles with minimum and maximum word hashes, calculated by the [wordShingleMinHashCaseInsensitiveUTF8](#wordshingleminhashcaseinsensitiveutf8) function with the same input. Is case insensitive.
```
